README.md, before:

# Daedalus

[![Build status](https://badge.buildkite.com/e173494257519752d79bb52c7859df6277c6d759b217b68384.svg?branch=master)](https://buildkite.com/input-output-hk/daedalus)
[![Windows build status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/github/input-output-hk/daedalus?branch=master&svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/input-output/daedalus)
[![Release](https://img.shields.io/github/release/input-output-hk/daedalus.svg)](https://github.com/input-output-hk/daedalus/releases)

Daedalus - cryptocurrency wallet

## Automated build

### CI/dev build scripts

Platform-specific build scripts facilitate building Daedalus the way it is built
by the IOHK CI:

   - `scripts/build-installer-unix.sh     <DAEDALUS-VERSION> <CARDANO-BRANCH> [OPTIONS..]`
      - where OS is either `linux` or `osx`
      - facilitates installer upload to S3 via `--upload-s3`
   - `scripts/build-installer-windows.bat <DAEDALUS-VERSION> <CARDANO-BRANCH>`

The result can be found at:
   - on OS X:    `${BUILD}/installers/dist/Daedalus-installer-*.pkg`
   - on WIndows: `${BUILD}/installers/daedalus-*-installer.exe`

### One-click build-fresh-daedalus scripts

These rely on the scripts from the previous section, but also go to a certain
trouble to ensure that dependencies are installed, and even check out a fresh
version of Daedalus from the specifid branch.

These are intended to be used by developers in a "clean rebuild" scenario, to
facilitate validation.

Dependencies:
   - on OS X:    `git`
   - on Windows: `Node.js`, `7zip`

Location:
   - on OS X:    https://github.com/input-output-hk/daedalus/blob/master/scripts/osx-build-fresh-daedalus.sh
   - on Windows: https://github.com/input-output-hk/daedalus/blob/master/scripts/windows-build-fresh-daedalus.bat

Invocation:
   ```shell
   {osx,windows}-build-fresh-daedalus.{sh,bat} [BRANCH] [GITHUB-USER] [OPTIONS...]
   ```
   ..where `BRANCH` defaults to the current release branch, and `GITHUB-USER`
   defaults to `input-output-hk`.

   The remaining `OPTIONS` are passed as-is to the respective build scripts.

## Stepwise build

### Install Node.js dependencies.

```bash
$ npm install
```

## Development

run with one command:

```bash
$ npm run dev
```

Or run these two commands __simultaneously__ in different console tabs.

```bash
$ npm run hot-server
$ npm run start-hot
```

*Note: requires a node version >= 4 and an npm version >= 3. This project
defaults to 6.x*

### Development - with Cardano Wallet

Build and run [Cardano SL](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-sl)

Build with:

```bash
$ brew install haskell-stack # OR curl -ssl https://get.haskellstack.org/ | sh
$ stack setup
$ stack install cpphs
$ brew install xz # OR sudo apt-get install xz-utils
$ brew install rocksdb # OR sudo apt-get install librocksdb-dev
$ git clone git@github.com:input-output-hk/cardano-sl.git
$ cd cardano-sl/
$ ./scripts/build/cardano-sl.sh
```

Run with:

```bash
$ tmux new-session -s cardano
$ ./scripts/launch/demo-with-wallet-api.sh
```

Stop with:

```bash
$ tmux kill-session -t cardano
```

### Development - network options

There are four different network options you can run Deadalus in: `mainnet`, `testnet` and `development` (default).
To set desired network option use `NETWORK` environment variable:

```bash
$ NETWORK=testnet npm run dev
```

### Testing

You can run the test suite in two different modes:

**One-time run:**
For running tests once using the application in prod mode (which is fast)
instead of dev with webpack hot-reload server (which is slow).

Execute this once before running the tests (which creates the `dist/bundle.js`):
```bash
$ npm run build
```

After that, execute this to run the tests:

```bash
$ npm run test
```

**Watch & Rerun on file changes:**
For development purposes run the tests continuously in watch mode which will re-run tests when source code changes.

Execute:
```bash
$ npm run hot-server
```

and then this:
```bash
$ npm run test-watch
```

You can find more details regarding tests setup within [Running Deadalus acceptance tests](https://github.com/input-output-hk/daedalus/blob/master/features/README.md) README file.

### CSS Modules

This boilerplate out of the box is configured to use [css-modules](https://github.com/css-modules/css-modules).

All `.css` file extensions will use css-modules unless it has `.global.css`.

If you need global styles, stylesheets with `.global.css` will not go through the
css-modules loader. e.g. `app.global.css`

### Externals

If you use any 3rd party libraries which can't or won't be built with webpack, you must list them in your `webpack.config.base.js`：

```javascript
externals: [
  // put your node 3rd party libraries which can't be built with webpack here (mysql, mongodb, and so on..)
]
```

For a common example, to install Bootstrap, `npm i --save bootstrap` and link them in the head of app.html

```html
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../node_modules/bootstrap/dist/css/bootstrap.css" />
<link rel="image/svg+xml" href="../node_modules/bootstrap/dist/fonts/glyphicons-halflings-regular.eot" />
...
```

Make sure to list bootstrap in externals in `webpack.config.base.js` or the app won't include them in the package:
```js
externals: ['bootstrap']
```

## Packaging

```bash
$ npm run package
```

To package apps for all platforms:

```bash
$ npm run package-all
```

To package apps with options:

```bash
$ npm run package -- --[option]
```

### Options

- --name, -n: Application name (default: ElectronReact)
- --version, -v: Electron version (default: latest version)
- --asar, -a: [asar](https://github.com/atom/asar) support (default: false)
- --icon, -i: Application icon
- --all: pack for all platforms

Use `electron-packager` to pack your app with `--all` options for darwin (osx), linux and win32 (windows) platform. After build, you will find them in `release` folder. Otherwise, you will only find one for your os.

Commit message:

[DEVOPS-690]  installers:  document the build-time generation of runtime config files

README.md, after:

# Daedalus

[![Build status](https://badge.buildkite.com/e173494257519752d79bb52c7859df6277c6d759b217b68384.svg?branch=master)](https://buildkite.com/input-output-hk/daedalus)
[![Windows build status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/github/input-output-hk/daedalus?branch=master&svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/input-output/daedalus)
[![Release](https://img.shields.io/github/release/input-output-hk/daedalus.svg)](https://github.com/input-output-hk/daedalus/releases)

Daedalus - cryptocurrency wallet

## Runtime configuration

The run-time configuration files of the Daedalus wallet are generated during the
installer build, and are governed by configuration files written in the Dhall
configuration language, which are factored per OS and target cluster:

  - https://github.com/input-output-hk/daedalus/tree/develop/installers/dhall

The Dhall expressions that comprise the runtime configuration are thus composed from:
  - `launcher.dhall` -- top level expression defining the launcher configuration YAML file
  - `topology.dhall` -- top level expression defining the wallet topology YAML file
  - `{linux,macos64,win64}.dhall`
  - `{mainnet,staging}.dhall`

The set of clusters (currently `mainnet` and `staging`) that the build scripts
(`scripts/build-installer-*`) will build installers for is enumerated in
https://github.com/input-output-hk/daedalus/blob/develop/installer-clusters.cfg

## Automated build

### CI/dev build scripts

Platform-specific build scripts facilitate building Daedalus the way it is built
by the IOHK CI:

   - `scripts/build-installer-unix.sh     <DAEDALUS-VERSION> <CARDANO-BRANCH> [OPTIONS..]`
      - where OS is either `linux` or `osx`
      - facilitates installer upload to S3 via `--upload-s3`
   - `scripts/build-installer-windows.bat <DAEDALUS-VERSION> <CARDANO-BRANCH>`

The result can be found at:
   - on OS X:    `${BUILD}/installers/dist/Daedalus-installer-*.pkg`
   - on WIndows: `${BUILD}/installers/daedalus-*-installer.exe`

### One-click build-fresh-daedalus scripts

These rely on the scripts from the previous section, but also go to a certain
trouble to ensure that dependencies are installed, and even check out a fresh
version of Daedalus from the specifid branch.

These are intended to be used by developers in a "clean rebuild" scenario, to
facilitate validation.

Dependencies:
   - on OS X:    `git`
   - on Windows: `Node.js`, `7zip`

Location:
   - on OS X:    https://github.com/input-output-hk/daedalus/blob/master/scripts/osx-build-fresh-daedalus.sh
   - on Windows: https://github.com/input-output-hk/daedalus/blob/master/scripts/windows-build-fresh-daedalus.bat

Invocation:
   ```shell
   {osx,windows}-build-fresh-daedalus.{sh,bat} [BRANCH] [GITHUB-USER] [OPTIONS...]
   ```
   ..where `BRANCH` defaults to the current release branch, and `GITHUB-USER`
   defaults to `input-output-hk`.

   The remaining `OPTIONS` are passed as-is to the respective build scripts.

## Stepwise build

### Install Node.js dependencies.

```bash
$ npm install
```

## Development

run with one command:

```bash
$ npm run dev
```

Or run these two commands __simultaneously__ in different console tabs.

```bash
$ npm run hot-server
$ npm run start-hot
```

*Note: requires a node version >= 4 and an npm version >= 3. This project
defaults to 6.x*

### Development - with Cardano Wallet

Build and run [Cardano SL](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-sl)

Build with:

```bash
$ brew install haskell-stack # OR curl -ssl https://get.haskellstack.org/ | sh
$ stack setup
$ stack install cpphs
$ brew install xz # OR sudo apt-get install xz-utils
$ brew install rocksdb # OR sudo apt-get install librocksdb-dev
$ git clone git@github.com:input-output-hk/cardano-sl.git
$ cd cardano-sl/
$ ./scripts/build/cardano-sl.sh
```

Run with:

```bash
$ tmux new-session -s cardano
$ ./scripts/launch/demo-with-wallet-api.sh
```

Stop with:

```bash
$ tmux kill-session -t cardano
```

### Development - network options

There are four different network options you can run Deadalus in: `mainnet`, `testnet` and `development` (default).
To set desired network option use `NETWORK` environment variable:

```bash
$ NETWORK=testnet npm run dev
```

### Testing

You can run the test suite in two different modes:

**One-time run:**
For running tests once using the application in prod mode (which is fast)
instead of dev with webpack hot-reload server (which is slow).

Execute this once before running the tests (which creates the `dist/bundle.js`):
```bash
$ npm run build
```

After that, execute this to run the tests:

```bash
$ npm run test
```

**Watch & Rerun on file changes:**
For development purposes run the tests continuously in watch mode which will re-run tests when source code changes.

Execute:
```bash
$ npm run hot-server
```

and then this:
```bash
$ npm run test-watch
```

You can find more details regarding tests setup within [Running Deadalus acceptance tests](https://github.com/input-output-hk/daedalus/blob/master/features/README.md) README file.

### CSS Modules

This boilerplate out of the box is configured to use [css-modules](https://github.com/css-modules/css-modules).

All `.css` file extensions will use css-modules unless it has `.global.css`.

If you need global styles, stylesheets with `.global.css` will not go through the
css-modules loader. e.g. `app.global.css`

### Externals

If you use any 3rd party libraries which can't or won't be built with webpack, you must list them in your `webpack.config.base.js`：

```javascript
externals: [
  // put your node 3rd party libraries which can't be built with webpack here (mysql, mongodb, and so on..)
]
```

For a common example, to install Bootstrap, `npm i --save bootstrap` and link them in the head of app.html

```html
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../node_modules/bootstrap/dist/css/bootstrap.css" />
<link rel="image/svg+xml" href="../node_modules/bootstrap/dist/fonts/glyphicons-halflings-regular.eot" />
...
```

Make sure to list bootstrap in externals in `webpack.config.base.js` or the app won't include them in the package:
```js
externals: ['bootstrap']
```

## Packaging

```bash
$ npm run package
```

To package apps for all platforms:

```bash
$ npm run package-all
```

To package apps with options:

```bash
$ npm run package -- --[option]
```

### Options

- --name, -n: Application name (default: ElectronReact)
- --version, -v: Electron version (default: latest version)
- --asar, -a: [asar](https://github.com/atom/asar) support (default: false)
- --icon, -i: Application icon
- --all: pack for all platforms

Use `electron-packager` to pack your app with `--all` options for darwin (osx), linux and win32 (windows) platform. After build, you will find them in `release` folder. Otherwise, you will only find one for your os.
